Flesh out scenario details (#34)
CDCgov/Rt-without-renewal: manuscript/index.qmd

### Simulation model

We use the generic model structure described above with a renewal process for reasons of convenience. The renewal equation is quite flexibie and makes minimal assumptions about the underlying infectious disease process. Although using the renewal equation to generate the data could be construed as leading to more favorable inference, all threee latent processes are able to generate the simulated data.

We simulate from the renewal process through the following procedure:
1. Take a fixed timeseries of Rt for 160 days (7 days x 8 weeks + 7 days x 15 weeks less one day). See the next subsection for more description of these scenarios.
2. Add noise to the fixed Rt estimates draws from a N(0, 0.1) with a fixed seed of `12345`.
3. Simulate daily incidence starting from $I_0 = 10$ cases and a fixed generation interval. See the next subsection for more detail.

> 4. Convolve the true incidence timeseries through a double-censored Exp(1/5) PMF with a maximum of 15 which has ~95% of the probability density. This PMF allows for some-day observation. Note that this choice of delay is arbitrary and does not correspond to any particular delay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The delay between infection and case ascertainment is represented as a convolution on the true incidence timeseries, as is standard in the literature **CITATIONS**. For any given infected person the delay between infection and ascertainment is distributed **SOME GAMMA/LOGNORMAL**; this is mapped to our discrete time forward simulations using double interval censoring of both the time of infection and the time of ascertainment **CITE SWP + OTHERS**.
```

### Simulation model

> We use the generic model structure described above with a renewal process for reasons of convenience. The renewal equation is quite flexibie and makes minimal assumptions about the underlying infectious disease process. Although using the renewal equation to generate the data could be construed as leading to more favorable inference, all threee latent processes are able to generate the simulated data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use the generic model structure described above with a renewal process as it represents (in its equivalence to an SEIR compartmental model) domain understanding of a model that can capture known infectious dynamics.
```

Reviewer 2: I think we should add to the limitations: 

- We did not explore simulating data from all models.
- However, our choice (the renewal process model) reflects domain knowledge.
- This does mean that our simulated scenarios should be seen as a best case for the renewal process

We simulate from the renewal process through the following procedure:
1. Take a fixed timeseries of Rt for 160 days (7 days x 8 weeks + 7 days x 15 weeks less one day). See the next subsection for more description of these scenarios.
2. Add noise to the fixed Rt estimates draws from a N(0, 0.1) with a fixed seed of `12345`.
3. Simulate daily incidence starting from $I_0 = 10$ cases and a fixed generation interval. See the next subsection for more detail.

> 4. Convolve the true incidence timeseries through a double-censored Exp(1/5) PMF with a maximum of 15 which has ~95% of the probability density. This PMF allows for some-day observation. Note that this choice of delay is arbitrary and does not correspond to any particular delay.

Reviewer: No, I think not having a Gamma or LogNormal would be an unusual choice.

5. Simulate additional negative binomial observation noise on the delayed cases drawn with mean of the true cases and overdispersion of 10.

> We do not add a day-of-week effect.

Reviewer 2: See #51

### Generation intervals

> We use two generation intervals, corresponding to pathogens with long and short GIs. We use descretized, double-censored versions of the GI PMFs.

Reviewer: I added a suggestion above that links this in.

- We do not explore more complex prior models such as splines and gaussian processes
- We focus our efforts on situational awareness and hence real-time performance. This means we do not focus on retrospective performance which may have different characteristics.
- We did not perform full simulation-based calibration.

> - Our simulations are produced by a model that is similar to the renewal process inference method and so represents a "best" case for this method. It would be potentially be stronger to simulate from an SEIR process directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Forward simulations of infections are generated from a renewal process with a time-varying reproduction number $\mathcal{R}_t$ and next generation time distribution $w(t)$ **CITATIONS**. This is a flexible approach to modelling the underlying infection dynamics that absorbs other popular modelling choices as special cases, such as the the SEIR model **CITE DIECKMANN AND HEESTERBEEK's book 2000 OR OTHER OPTIONS**.

Our simulations are produced by a model that is similar to the renewal process inference method and so represents a "best" case for this method. It would be potentially be stronger to simulate from an SEIR process directly.
```

- We do not explore more complex prior models such as splines and gaussian processes
- We focus our efforts on situational awareness and hence real-time performance. This means we do not focus on retrospective performance which may have different characteristics.
- We did not perform full simulation-based calibration.

> - Our simulations are produced by a model that is similar to the renewal process inference method and so represents a "best" case for this method. Potential future work could explore other versions of the infection generation process backing the simulations but we feel this choice makes sense given that the renewal process best reflects our mechanistic understanding of how transmission works of the models we explore here.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure why we would remove this?

> - Our simulations are produced by a model that is similar to the renewal process inference method and so represents a "best" case for this method. It would be potentially be stronger to simulate from an SEIR process directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Our simulations are produced by a model that is similar to the renewal process inference method and so represents a "best" case for this method.
```

I don't think that is justified given the equivalence.

Author: @SamuelBrand1 can you put your spiel here and I'll make sure it finds its way to the right place

Reviewer 2: shall we make this an issue for @SamuelBrand1 to address instead?
